

This article discusses the potential implications of artificial intelligence (AI) becoming a reality. It explains why it is difficult to take the prospect of a world transformed by AI seriously, and how to develop an idea of what the future of AI might look like. It compares the potential of transformative AI to the agricultural and industrial revolutions, and suggests that it could represent the introduction of a similarly significant general-purpose technology. The article also looks at the advantages and disadvantages of comparing machine and human intelligence, and introduces the concept of transformative AI, which is defined by the impact this technology would have on the world. It is noted that transformative AI could be developed before human-level AI, and that the timeline for when either of these levels of AI might be achieved is difficult to predict.

The article also looks at the potential risks and benefits of AI becoming more powerful. It is clear that AI can already cause harm when used maliciously, such as in politically-motivated disinformation campaigns or to enable mass surveillance. AI can also cause unintended harm, such as when an AI system falsely accused 26,000 parents of making fraudulent claims for child care benefits in the Netherlands. As AI becomes more powerful, the potential negative impacts could become much larger, such as mass labor displacement, extreme concentrations of power and wealth, and totalitarianism. Additionally, there is the risk of an AI system escaping human control and harming humans, known as the alignment problem. This risk is difficult to foresee and prevent, and could lead to an extreme catastrophe. On the other hand, AI could lead to positive developments such as cleaner energy, the replacement of unpleasant work, and better healthcare. The stakes are high with this technology, and reducing the negative risks and solving the alignment problem could mean the difference between a healthy, flourishing, and wealthy future for humanity – and the destruction of the same.

The article also looks at the difference between human-level AI and transformative AI, and the potential timeline for when either of these levels of AI might be achieved. It is noted that transformative AI could be developed before human-level AI, and that the timeline for when either of these levels of AI might be achieved is difficult to predict. Additionally, the article provides information about the licenses and permissions associated with Our World in Data's visualizations, data, code, and articles. Finally, the article looks at the concept of human-level AI, which is defined as a software system that can carry out at least 90% or 99% of all economically relevant tasks that humans carry out. It also looks at the closely related terms Artificial General Intelligence, High-Level Machine Intelligence, Strong AI, or Full AI, which are sometimes defined in similar, yet different ways. The section also looks at the difficulty of comparing machine and human intelligence, and the potential risks of AI systems, such as AI-enabled disinformation campaigns and mass surveillance by governments. It also looks at the incentives for developing powerful AI, and the potential for it to lead to positive developments. Finally, the section looks at the early warnings of Alan Turing and Norbert Wiener about the alignment problem, and Toby Ord's projection that AI could be developed by 2040.
