Title-Abstract. Section intro
 
AID systems. In addition, patients were instruct-
ed to contact trial staff members to discuss any 
clinical or technical issues.

During  a  4-week  run-in  phase,  patients  be-
came familiar with the trial devices functioning 
as sensor-augmented insulin-pump therapy. Pa-

870

n engl j med 387;10  nejm.org  September 8, 2022


Automated Insulin Delivery in Type 1 Diabetes

tients were then randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio 
to the AID group or the control group with the 
use of blocks of four, six, and eight stratified 
according to age, trial site, and baseline glycated 
hemoglobin level (≤8.0% or >8.0%). A 24-week 
trial followed, with the primary end point mea-
sured between days 155 and 168 (the last 2 weeks 
of the trial) (Fig. S1). All the patients attended 
three  in-person  visits  (at  weeks  0,  12,  and  24); 
those in the AID group also had two additional 
reviews by telephone at weeks 3 and 6. During 
visits and telephone reviews, patients were asked 
about adverse events and device issues, medica-
tion use, and Dexcom alarm settings. In addition, 
staff  members  reviewed  data  using  a  unique 
URL  provided  by  Nightscout  (an  open-source 
project  that  enables  access  to  data  regarding 
continuous glucose monitoring) and advised pa-
tients  on  changes  in  device  settings.  All  the 
patients  (or  their  parents  or  guardians)  could 
alter settings between contacts, but staff mem-
bers  were  instructed  to  avoid  surveillance  out-
side  of  scheduled  reviews  and  did  not  receive 
automated alerts. This approach was designed to 
negate  an  effect  on  outcomes  caused  by  addi-
tional scheduled contact with the trial team in 
the AID group.

Open-Source AID
The system was a modified version of AndroidAPS 
2.810  (which  uses  the  standard  OpenAPS  0.7.0 
algorithm11) paired with a preproduction DANA-i 
insulin  pump  and  Dexcom  G6  CGM.  The  user 
interface was an Android smartphone application 
(AnyDANA-Loop).  Modifications  reduced  the 
number of objectives and time required to enable 
closed-loop therapy. Patients used the AnyDANA-
Loop application for mealtime insulin adminis-
tration  and  AnyDANA-Loop  automated  insulin 
delivery in response to the glucose target. Any 
changes  to  user-specific  settings  were  made 
with the patients’ involvement, according to the 
technical manual (Table S2). Written guidelines 
and  “how  to”  video  demonstrations  of  key  as-
pects of the applications were provided to all the 
patients in the AID group.

lin  doses.  The  sensor-augmented  insulin-pump 
therapy was not designed to predict low-glucose 
levels  or  to  suspend  insulin  administration.  A 
smartphone  application,  called  Monitor,  trans-
mitted data regarding continuous glucose moni-
toring to Nightscout.

Outcomes
The  primary  outcome  was  percentage  of  time 
in the target glucose range of 70 to 180 mg per 
deciliter (3.9 to 10.0 mmol per liter) between day 
155 and day 168. Secondary outcomes were met-
rics for continuous glucose monitoring12 between 
days  155  and  168,  which  were  categorized  as 
occurring during a 24-hour period, during day-
time  hours  (6  a.m.  to  midnight),  or  during 
nighttime hours (midnight to 6 a.m.); the gly-
cated  hemoglobin  level,  as  measured  by  cali-
brated  point-of-care  instruments  (DCA  Vantage 
Analyzer, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics); and 
the  performance  of  the  AID  system  (the  time 
that the system was automating insulin delivery 
and the incidence of device deficiencies). Sepa-
rate  analyses  were  prespecified  to  evaluate  the 
psychosocial effect of device use, the collective 
learning of patients and staff members, and eat-
ing behaviors (Table S3).

Adverse  events  that  were  evaluated  included 
adverse  device  effects,  serious  adverse  events, 
and serious adverse device effects. Severe hypo-
glycemia  or  hyperglycemia  and  diabetic  keto-
acidosis were reported as serious adverse events 
or serious adverse device effects.

At approximately 3 months into theaf-
ter the enrollment of approximately two thirds 
of the patients), a battery problem in a prepro-
duction DANA-i insulin pump was identified. A 
device deficiency was recorded when the pump 
battery  lasted  less  than  2  weeks,  and  a  device 
deficiency with potential serious adverse device 
effects was reported when the pump turned off 
without warning. Patients in the control group 
had the option of returning to theiru-
 pump  (which  52  of  53  did),  and 
those in the AID group used refurbished prepro-
duction DANA-i insulin pumps.

Sensor-Augmented Insulin-Pump Therapy
Patients in the control group used the 
GGM with high and low glucose alerts and 
their  usual  insulin  pump  or  a  preproduction 
DANA-i insulin pump to administer bolus insu-

Statistical Analysis
We  calculated  that  68  patients  (34  per  group) 
would provide 90% power with a two-sided alpha  of 0.05 to reject the null hypothesis of no 
between-group difference in the time in range, 

n engl j med 387;10  nejm.org  September 8, 2022

871


T h e    e ngl a nd   jou r na l   o f  m e dicine

assuming  a  population  standard  deviation 