Title-Abstract. Section intro
ary 2015.2 Since that time, multiple open-source 
AID systems have evolved, and despite a lack of 
regulatory  approval,  such  systems  have  been 
adopted  by  approximately  2500  patients  with 
diabetes  globally.  Data  now  include  the  results 
of  more  than  55  million  hours  of  real-world 
open-source AID experience.3

Two widely used open-source AID systems are 
AndroidAPS (OpenAPS algorithm on an Android 
device)  and  Loop  (a  different  algorithm  on  an 
iOS  device).  In  a  single-group  study,  investiga-
tors  found  that  patients  who  used  the  Loop 
system had a higher percentage of time in range 
for  target  glucose  control  (70  to  180  mg  per 
deciliter [3.9 to 10.0 mmol per liter]), with an 
increase in control from 67% at baseline to 73% 
at 6 months.4 However, this study was limited by 
a lack of comparative effectiveness and the en-
rollment of patients who had a high percentage 
of time in the target range at baseline.

The uptake of open-source AID systems has a 
number of barriers beyond a lack of regulatory 
approval, including a lack of trial data regarding 
safety  and  efficacy,  limited  expertise  with  the 
system among health care professionals, and a 
perception that the use of AID systems is techni-
cally  challenging.5-7  In  the  randomized,  con-
trolled trial called CREATE (Community Derived 
Automated  Insulin  Delivery),  we  evaluated  the 
efficacy and safety of an open-source AID system 
as  compared  with  sensor-augmented  insulin-
pump therapy in children and adults with type 1 
diabetes.

Methods

Trial Conduct and Oversight
The  trial  was  conducted  at  four  sites  in  New 
Zealand in compliance with Good Clinical Prac-
tice guidelines and was approved by the South-
ern  Health  and  Disability  Ethics  Committee  of 
New Zealand. The trial was funded by the Health 
Research  Council  of  New  Zealand.  Hardware 

support  was  provided  by  SOOIL  Development, 
Dexcom, and Vodafone New Zealand. The trial 
protocol (available with the full text of this article 
at NEJM.org) has been published previously.8 An 
independent  data  and  safety  monitoring  com-
mittee and medical monitor provided trial over-
sight. Written informed consent was provided by 
all adult patients (16 to 70 years of age) or by the 
parents or guardians of children (7 to 15 years); 
assent was also sought from all the children.

The trial was designed by representatives of 
the sponsor, the University of Otago. Data were 
collected by the investigators and site personnel, 
analyzed by a statistician employed by the spon-
sor, and interpreted by the authors. Experts on 
open-source AID systems trial team 
provided  training  to  clinical  staff  members.  A 
Slack workspace (Slack Technologies) facilitated 
ongoing learning by allowing clinical staff mem-
bers to communicate with each other and with 
experts in open-source AID on the trial team.9

The authors were responsible for writing the 
first draft of the manuscript or for contributing 
to the review and editing of the manuscript. All 
the  authors  made  the  decision  to  submit  the 
manuscript  for  publication  and  vouch  for  the 
completeness and accuracy of the data and for 
the fidelity of the trial to the protocol.

Patients and Trial Design
Eligible patients were between the ages of 7 and 
70 years, had received a diagnosis of type 1 dia-
betes at least 1 year earlier, had at least 6 months 
of  experience  with  insulin-pump  therapy,  and 
had  a  mean  glycated  hemoglobin  level  of  less 
than 10.5% (91 mmol per mole). Details regard-
ing the inclusion and exclusion criteria are pro-
vided in Table S1 in the Supplementary Appen-
dix,  available  at  NEJM.org.  The  ages  of  the 
patients reflected the age range in general clini-
cal practice in New Zealand.

Patients in the two trial groups (or their par-
ents or guardians) were invited to join separate 
closed online communities (Tribe Technologies) 
that provided ongoing peer support to simulate 
community  support  for  the  use  of  open